[ci skip] Add buttons article (#904)
DSharpPlus/DSharpPlus: docs/articles/advanced_topics/buttons.md

---
uid: advanced_topics_buttons

> title: Buttons & Components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Buttons
```
This article is only about buttons.

---

> # Button Introduction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Introduction
```
We already know this article is about buttons.

> Buttons are a feature in Discord based on the interaction framework. Buttons are appended to the bottom of a message, and come in several colors.
> 
> Before working with buttons, you will want to familarize yourself with the [Message Builder](xref:beyond_basics_messagebuilder). It, among other builders will be mentioned throughout this article, and function similarly.

Reviewer: I feel like the wording for this is clunky:
```suggestion
Buttons are a feature in Discord based on the interaction framework appended to the bottom of a message which come in several colors.
You will want to familarize yourself with the [message builder](xref:beyond_basics_messagebuilder) as it and similar builder objects will be used throughout this article.
```

With buttons, you can have up to five buttons in a row, and up to five (5) rows of buttons. 
Furthermore, buttons come in two types: regular, and link. Link buttons contain a Url field, and are always grey.

# Buttons Continued

> [!WARNING]
> Custom Ids on buttons should be unique, as this is what's sent back when a user presses a button.
>
> Link buttons do **not** have a custom id and do **not** send interactions when pressed.

> 

Reviewer: This is very out of place. What custom ID are you talking about here? Why am I being yelled at?

Author: I can move it down if you'd like?

Author: Emzi recommended warning. It was initially a note.

Buttons consist of five parts:
- Id
- Style
- Label
- Emoji
- Disabled

The id of the button is a settable string on buttons, and is specified by the developer. Discord sends this id back in the [interaction object](https://discord.dev/interactions/slash-commands#interaction).

The style of a button is one of four colors: Blurple, Grey, Green, and Red. These are referred to as Primary, Secondary, Success, and Danger respectively.

The label of a button is optional *if* an emoji is specified. The label can be up to 80 characters in length. 
The emoji of a button is a [partial emoji object](https://discord.dev/interactions/message-components#component-object), which means that **any valid emoji is usable**, even if your bot does not have access to it's origin server.

> The disabled field of a button is rather self explanatory. If this is set to true, the user will see a greyed out button which they cannot interact with. 

Reviewer: This also feels out of place. Is this portion referencing properties of the button? Some code examples displaying these properties in use would help put this together.

Author: Will do.

# Making buttons

Making buttons is relatively simple. Simply make a builder, and sprinkle some content and buttons on.

```cs
var builder = new DiscordMessageBuilder();

builder
    .WithContent("This message has buttons! Pretty neat innit?")
    .WithComponents(new DiscordComponent[] 
    {
        new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Primary, "1_top" "Blurple!"),
        new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Secondary, "2_top", "Grey!"),
        new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Success, "3_top", "Green!"),
        new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Danger, "4_top", "Red!"),
        new DiscordButtonComponent("https://some-super-cool.site", "Link!")
    })
    .WithComponents(new DiscordComponent[] 
    {
        new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Primary, "1_top_d" "Blurple!", true),
        new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Secondary, "2_top_d" "Grey!", true),
        new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Success, "3_top_d", "Green!", true),
        new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Danger, "4_top_d" "Red!", true),
        new DiscordButtonComponent("https://some-super-cool.site", "Link!", true)
    });

await builder.SendAsync(someChannel);

> ```

Reviewer: Big block of code bad. I'd suggest breaking this up and stepping through what exactly is happening here.

> As a note, custom ids can contain spaces. For these examples, underscores will be used. 

Reviewer: Hidden fun facts make me cry :(

Author: `[!NOTE]`?

Produces a message like such: ![Buttons](/images/advanced_topics_buttons_01.png)

# Responding to button presses

When any button is pressed, it will fire the [ComponentInteractionCreated](xref:DSharpPlus.DiscordClient#ComponentInteractionCreated) event.

> In the event args, `Id` will be the id of the button you specified. There's also an `Interaction` property, which contains the interaction the event created. It's important to respond to an interaction within 3 seconds, or it will time out. Responding after this period will throw a `NotFoundException`.

Reviewer: > In the event args, `Id` will be the id of the button you specified.

The ID is the ID? Thank u velveeta.

Author: ` Id` to discord actually refers to the snowflake of the interaction tyvm

With buttons, there are two new response types: `DefferedMessageUpdate` and `UpdateMessage`.

Using `DeferredMessageUpdate` lets you create followup messages via the [followup message builder](xref:DSharpPlus.Entities.DiscordFollowupMessageBuilder). The button will return to being in it's 'dormant' state, or it's 'unpushed' state, if you will. 

You have 15 minutes from that point to make followup messages. Responding to that interaction looks like such:

```cs

> client.ComponentInteractionCreated += async (c, e) => 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
client.ComponentInteractionCreated += async (s, e) => 
```
Consistency with other articles

{
    await e.Interaction.CreateResponseAsync(InteractionResponseType.DefferedMessageUpdate);
    // Do things.. //
}
```

If you would like to update the message when a button is pressed, however, you'd use `UpdateMessage` instead, and pass a `DiscordInteractionResponseBuilder` with the new content you'd like.

```cs

> client.ComponentInteractionCreated += async (c, e) => 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
client.ComponentInteractionCreated += async (s, e) => 
```
Consistency with other articles

The label of a button is optional *if* an emoji is specified. The label can be up to 80 characters in length. 
The emoji of a button is a [partial emoji object](https://discord.dev/interactions/message-components#component-object), which means that **any valid emoji is usable**, even if your bot does not have access to it's origin server.

The disabled field of a button is rather self explanatory. If this is set to true, the user will see a greyed out button which they cannot interact with. 

# Adding buttons
> [!NOTE]
> This article will use underscores in button ids for consistency and styling, but spaces are also usable.

Adding buttons to a message is relatively simple. Simply make a builder, and sprinkle some content and the buttons you'd like.

```cs
var builder = new DiscordMessageBuilder();
builder.WithContent("This message has buttons! Pretty neat innit?");
```

Well, there's a builder, but no buttons. What now? Simply make a new button object (`DiscordButtonComponent`) and call `.WithComponents()` on the MessageBuilder.

```cs

> var builder = new DiscordMessageBuilder();
> 
> var myButton = new DiscordButtonComponent 
> {
>     CustomId = "my_custom_id",
>     Label = "This is a button!",
>     Style = ButtonStyle.Primary,
> };
> 
> builder
>     .WithContent("This message has buttons! Pretty neat innit?")
>     .WithComponents(myButton);

Reviewer: floating :(
```suggestion
var myButton = new DiscordButtonComponent
{
    CustomId = "my_custom_id",
    Label = "This is a button!",
    Style = ButtonStyle.Primary,
};

var builder = new DiscordMessageBuilder()
    .WithContent("This message has buttons! Pretty neat innit?")
    .WithComponents(myButton);
```

```
Now you have a message with a button. Congratulations! It's important to note that `.WithComponents()` will create a new row with each call, so **add everything you want on one row in one call!**

Buttons can be added in any order you fancy. Lets add 5 to demonstrate each color, and a link button for good measure.

```cs
var builder = new DiscordMessageBuilder();

builder
    .WithContent("This message has buttons! Pretty neat innit?")
    .WithComponents(new DiscordComponent[] 
    {
        new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Primary, "1_top" "Blurple!"),
        new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Secondary, "2_top", "Grey!"),
        new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Success, "3_top", "Green!"),
        new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Danger, "4_top", "Red!"),
        new DiscordLinkButtonComponent("https://some-super-cool.site", "Link!")
    });
```
As promised, not too complicated. Links however are `DiscordLinkButtonComponent`, which takes a URL as it's first parameter, and the label. Link buttons can also have an emoji, like regular buttons.

Lets also add a second row of buttons, but disable them, so the user can't push them all willy-nilly.

```cs

>     builder.WithComponents(new DiscordComponent[] 
>     {
>         new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Primary, "1_top_d" "Blurple!", true),
>         new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Secondary, "2_top_d" "Grey!", true),
>         new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Success, "3_top_d", "Green!", true),
>         new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Danger, "4_top_d" "Red!", true),
>         new DiscordButtonComponent("https://some-super-cool.site", "Link!", true)
>     });

Reviewer: smh you forgot the whitespace
```suggestion
builder.WithComponents(new DiscordComponent[] 
{
    new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Primary, "1_top_d" "Blurple!", true),
    new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Secondary, "2_top_d" "Grey!", true),
    new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Success, "3_top_d", "Green!", true),
    new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Danger, "4_top_d" "Red!", true),
    new DiscordButtonComponent("https://some-super-cool.site", "Link!", true)
});
```

```
Practically identical, but now with `true` as an extra paremeter. This is the `Disabled` property. 

Produces a message like such: ![Buttons](/images/advanced_topics_buttons_01.png)

Well, that's all neat, but lets say you want to add an emoji. Being able to use any emoji is pretty neat, afterall. That's also very simple!

```cs

> var myButton = new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Primary, "emoji_button", null, false, new DiscordComponentEmoji(595381687026843651));

Reviewer: lets make this guy look nicer
```suggestion
var myButton = new DiscordButtonComponent
(
    ButtonStyle.Primary, 
    "emoji_button", 
    null, 
    false, 
    new DiscordComponentEmoji(595381687026843651)
);
```

```

> And you're done! Simply add that to a builder, and when you send, you'll get a message that has a button with a little Pikachu enjoying a lolipop. Adorable. ![PikaLolipop](/images/advanced_topics_buttons_02.png)

Reviewer: Missing image?

Author: Fix'd

---
uid: advanced_topics_buttons
title: Buttons
---

# Introduction
Buttons are a feature in Discord based on the interaction framework appended to the bottom of a message which come in several colors.
You will want to familarize yourself with the [message builder](xref:beyond_basics_messagebuilder) as it and similar builder objects will be used throughout this article.

> With buttons, you can have up to five buttons in a row, and up to five (5) rows of buttons. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With buttons, you can have up to five buttons in a row, and up to five (5) rows of buttons, for a maximum for 25 buttons per message.
```

Furthermore, buttons come in two types: regular, and link. Link buttons contain a Url field, and are always grey.

# Buttons Continued

> > [!WARNING]
> > Component (Button) Ids on buttons should be unique, as this is what's sent back when a user presses a button.
> >
> > Link buttons do **not** have a custom id and do **not** send interactions when pressed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**WARNING!**
Component (button) Ids on buttons should be unique, as this is what's sent back to you when a user presses a button. Link buttons do **not** have a custom id and do **not** send interactions when pressed.
```
Using `>` for warning seems a little weird to me personally.

Buttons consist of five parts:
- Id
- Style
- Label
- Emoji
- Disabled

The id of the button is a settable string on buttons, and is specified by the developer. Discord sends this id back in the [interaction object](https://discord.dev/interactions/slash-commands#interaction).

Non-link buttons come in four colors, which are known as styles: Blurple, Grey, Green, and Red. Or as their styles are named: Primary, Secondary, Success, and Danger respectively.

> How does one construct a button? It's simple, and buttons support constructor and object initialization

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
How does one construct a button? It's simple, buttons support constructor and object initialization like so:
```

};
```
This will create a blurple button with the text that reads "Very cool button!". When a user pushes it, `"my_very_cool_button"` will be sent back as the `Id` property on the event. This is expanded on in the [how to respond to buttons](#responding-to-button-presses).

The label of a button is optional *if* an emoji is specified. The label can be up to 80 characters in length. 
The emoji of a button is a [partial emoji object](https://discord.dev/interactions/message-components#component-object), which means that **any valid emoji is usable**, even if your bot does not have access to it's origin server.

The disabled field of a button is rather self explanatory. If this is set to true, the user will see a greyed out button which they cannot interact with. 

# Adding buttons
> [!NOTE]
> This article will use underscores in button ids for consistency and styling, but spaces are also usable.

Adding buttons to a message is relatively simple. Simply make a builder, and sprinkle some content and the buttons you'd like.

```cs
var builder = new DiscordMessageBuilder();
builder.WithContent("This message has buttons! Pretty neat innit?");
```

> Well, there's a builder, but no buttons. What now? Simply make a new button object (`DiscordButtonComponent`) and call `.WithComponents()` on the MessageBuilder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Well, there's a builder, but no buttons. What now? Simply make a new button object (`DiscordButtonComponent`) and call `.AddComponents()` on the MessageBuilder.
```

```cs
var myButton = new DiscordButtonComponent
{
    CustomId = "my_custom_id",
    Label = "This is a button!",
    Style = ButtonStyle.Primary,
};

var builder = new DiscordMessageBuilder()
    .WithContent("This message has buttons! Pretty neat innit?")

>     .WithComponents(myButton);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    .AddComponents(myButton);
```

```

> Now you have a message with a button. Congratulations! It's important to note that `.WithComponents()` will create a new row with each call, so **add everything you want on one row in one call!**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you have a message with a button. Congratulations! It's important to note that `.AddComponents()` will create a new row with each call, so **add everything you want on one row in one call!**
```

Buttons can be added in any order you fancy. Lets add 5 to demonstrate each color, and a link button for good measure.

```cs
var builder = new DiscordMessageBuilder()
    .WithContent("This message has buttons! Pretty neat innit?")

>     .WithComponents(new DiscordComponent[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    .AddComponents(new DiscordComponent[]
```

    {
        new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Primary, "1_top" "Blurple!"),
        new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Secondary, "2_top", "Grey!"),
        new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Success, "3_top", "Green!"),
        new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Danger, "4_top", "Red!"),
        new DiscordLinkButtonComponent("https://some-super-cool.site", "Link!")
    });
```
As promised, not too complicated. Links however are `DiscordLinkButtonComponent`, which takes a URL as it's first parameter, and the label. Link buttons can also have an emoji, like regular buttons.

Lets also add a second row of buttons, but disable them, so the user can't push them all willy-nilly.

```cs

> builder.WithComponents(new DiscordComponent[] 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
builder.AddComponents(new DiscordComponent[] 
```

    new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Success, "3_top_d", "Green!", true),
    new DiscordButtonComponent(ButtonStyle.Danger, "4_top_d" "Red!", true),
    new DiscordButtonComponent("https://some-super-cool.site", "Link!", true)
});
```
Practically identical, but now with `true` as an extra paremeter. This is the `Disabled` property. 

Produces a message like such: ![Buttons](/images/advanced_topics_buttons_01.png)

Well, that's all neat, but lets say you want to add an emoji. Being able to use any emoji is pretty neat, afterall. That's also very simple!

```cs
var myButton = new DiscordButtonComponent
(
    ButtonStyle.Primary, 
    "emoji_button", 
    null, 
    false, 
    new DiscordComponentEmoji(595381687026843651)
);
```
And you're done! Simply add that to a builder, and when you send, you'll get a message that has a button with a little Pikachu enjoying a lolipop. Adorable. ![PikaLolipop](/images/advanced_topics_buttons_02.png)

# Responding to button presses

When any button is pressed, it will fire the [ComponentInteractionCreated](xref:DSharpPlus.DiscordClient#ComponentInteractionCreated) event.

> In the event args, `Id` will be the id of the button you specified. There's also an `Interaction` property, which contains the interaction the event created. It's important to respond to an interaction within 3 seconds, or it will time out. Responding after this period will throw a `NotFoundException`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the event args, `Id` will be the id of the button you specified. There's also an `Interaction` property, which contains the interaction the event created. It's important to respond to an interaction **within 3 seconds**, or it will time out. Responding after this period will throw a `NotFoundException`. You can respond to an interaction and then later edit that response if your code needs to more than 3 seconds to process.
```
I feel this people will gloss over the three second portion and ask why their interaction is failing. Also feel people will ask how to get around the three seconds.

Author: You can respond to an interaction with `DefferedMessageUpdate` [...]

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I wasn't aware that took into account the time window.

Author: > Sorry, I wasn't aware that took into account the time window.

Read the docs :^)

    // Do things.. //
}
```

If you would like to update the message when a button is pressed, however, you'd use `UpdateMessage` instead, and pass a `DiscordInteractionResponseBuilder` with the new content you'd like.

```cs
client.ComponentInteractionCreated += async (c, e) => 
{
    await e.Interaction.CreateResponseAsync(InteractionResponseType.UpdateMessage, new DiscordInteractionResponseBuilder().WithContent("No more buttons for you >:)"));
}
```
This will update the message, and without the infamous <sub>(edited)</sub> next to it. Nice.

# Interactivity
Along with the typical `WaitForMessageAsync` and `WaitForReactionAsync` methods provided by interactivity, there are also button implementations as well.

More information about how interactivity works can be found in [the interactivity article](xref:interactivity)

Since buttons create interactions, there are also two additional properties in the configuration:
- RepsonseBehavior
- ResponseMessage

ResponseBehavior is what interactivity will do when handling something that isn't a valid valid button, in the context of waiting for a specific button. It defaults to `Ignore`, which will cause the interaction fail.

> Alterantively, setting it to `Ack` will acknowledge the button, and continue waiting. 

Reviewer 3: Alternatively
